---
description: How to manually upgrade machine images or Kubernetes versions for Gardener clusters
---
# Conducting rolling upgrades

By default, Kubernetes clusters created with {{k8s_management_service}}
in {{brand}} are upgraded automatically. Those upgrades take place
during a specified maintenance window, and you may find out more about
[what they involve and how they
work](../../../background/kubernetes/gardener/autoupgrades.md). Besides
the automatic upgrades, you can manually apply any upgrades available
for your cluster.

In the following two examples, we first show how to manually upgrade the
machine image the cluster nodes are based on and then how to upgrade the
Kubernetes version the cluster uses.

## Upgrading machine images

In the left-hand vertical pane of the {{gui}}, select Containers â†’
[{{k8s_management_service}}](https://{{gui_domain}}/containers/gardener).
In the central pane, you will see all your {{k8s_management_service}}
clusters, each on its own row. If a Kubernetes upgrade is available, in
the *Versions* column you will notice a triangular marker together with
the new Kubernetes version. On the other hand, if there is a new machine
image version for the cluster nodes, then in the *Workers* column you
will notice just a triangular marker and no version number.

![Garden Linux and Kubernetes upgrades available](assets/rollupgr-01.png)

To get more information about the new machine image available, click on
the cluster row to bring its details into view, then select the *Worker
Groups* tab. There, you will see the version of the new machine image.
To start the upgrade process, click any of the two
:fontawesome-solid-arrows-rotate: icons.

![About to start Garden Linux upgrade](assets/rollupgr-02.png)

The upgrade process will start immediately and will take some time to
complete. After it is done, there will be no triangular marker in the
*Workers* column, and the new image version will be displayed in the
*Worker groups* tab. Our example still has a triangular marker in the
*Version* column. That is because we have not upgraded Kubernetes yet.

![Garden Linux upgraded](assets/rollupgr-03.png)

## Upgrading Kubernetes

To get the Kubernetes upgrade process going, click the orange
:material-dots-horizontal-circle: icon on the right of the cluster row.
In the pop-up menu that appears, you will notice an option named
*Kubernetes Patch Available*. That one is not always there, but now it
is and acts as another indicator of an available Kubernetes upgrade.
Please select the option by clicking on it.

![Kubernetes patch available](assets/rollupgr-04.png)

A new pop-up window named *Upgrade Kubernetes Version for:
&lt;cluster_name&gt;* appears. From the *Version* drop-down menu, you
may select the new Kubernetes version you want your cluster to upgrade
to.  When ready, click the blue *Upgrade* button to start the process.

![About to start a Kubernetes upgrade](assets/rollupgr-05.png)

After some minutes, the upgrade will be over. The new Kubernetes version
will be visible in the *Version* column of the cluster row.

![Kubernetes upgraded](assets/rollupgr-06.png)
